docs: Manage OpenID session secrets (#1025)
keptn/keptn.github.io: content/docs/0.13.x/operate/user_management/oauth_secrets/index.md

---
title: OpenID Session Secrets
description: Manage session and database encryption secret of your Keptn Bridge.
weight: 30
---

> In this section, the management of the session and database encryption secret of the Keptn Bridge is explained.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, the management of the session and database encryption secrets of the Keptn Bridge is explained.
```

> In this section, the management of the session and database encryption secrets of the Keptn Bridge is explained.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section explains the management of the session and database encryption secrets of the Keptn Bridge.
```

> - `session secret`: This secret is used to hash the session of the user.
> - `database encryption secret`: This secret is used to encrypt the session in the database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `session secret`: Used to hash the session of the user.
- `database encryption secret`: Used to encrypt the session in the database.
```
"This secret is" in these two items seems like superfluous noise but you may disagree.

## Create session and database encryption secret

* To create the session and database encryption secret, use the following commands provided by the operating system:

    <details><summary>on Linux </summary>
    <p>

>     * To generate the secrets, use the following commands and store them into the environment variables `OAUTH_SESSION_SECRET` and `OAUTH_DATABASE_ENCRYPT_SECRET`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Use the following commands to generate the secrets and store the results into the environment variables `OAUTH_SESSION_SECRET` and `OAUTH_DATABASE_ENCRYPT_SECRET`:
```
The existing syntax says that one is storing the commands in the environment variables and I don't think that is the intent.

    <details><summary>on Windows PowerShell</summary>
    <p>

    * To generate the secrets, use the following commands and store them into the environment variables `$Env:OAUTH_SESSION_SECRET` and `$Env:OAUTH_DATABASE_ENCRYPT_SECRET`:

        ```console
        $Env:OAUTH_SESSION_SECRET =  Write-Output ( -join ((0x30..0x39) + ( 0x41..0x5A) + ( 0x61..0x7A) | Get-Random -Count 45  | % {[char]$_}) )
        $Env:OAUTH_DATABASE_ENCRYPT_SECRET =  Write-Output ( -join ((0x30..0x39) + ( 0x41..0x5A) + ( 0x61..0x7A) | Get-Random -Count 32  | % {[char]$_}) )
        ```

    * To create the secrets, execute:

        ```console
        kubectl create secret generic -n keptn bridge-oauth --from-literal=OAUTH_SESSION_SECRET="$Env:OAUTH_SESSION_SECRET" --from-literal=OAUTH_DATABASE_ENCRYPT_SECRET="$Env:OAUTH_DATABASE_ENCRYPT_SECRET"
        ```

    </p>
    </details>

## Reset session and database encryption secret

* To reset the session and the database encryption secret of a Keptn installation, first delete the secret:

    ```console
    kubectl delete secret -n keptn bridge-oauth
    ```

* [Create the secrets](./#create-session-and-database-encryption-secret) as explained above.

> * Re-start the Keptn Bridge since it requires new secrets:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Re-start the Keptn Bridge to fetch the new secrets:
```
